                            Apache Directory Server
                            =======================

Documentation
-------------

Go online for the most up to date documentation. Point your browser to:

     http://directory.apache.org/apacheds/1.5


Running
-------

The server is designed to run as a Windows Service or as a UNIX Daemon (also
on MacOSX).  ApacheDS uses commons-daemon procrun and jsvc to install and run
as a service or daemon respectively.  These are the only native components 
specific to the targeted operating system.

You can start, and stop the daemon on UNIX using the /etc/init.d/apacheds 
script.  The debug command starts the server without the daemon.  It can be
used to attach to the server using a debugger and to dump output to the
console.  Only in debug mode can the diagnostic screens be launched.  In
daemon mode the proper DISPLAY parameter must be set to launch the diagnostics
on startup.

On Windows the server can be started like any other service using the services
console via Microsoft Management Console.  It can also be started, stopped and
configured using the procrun service manager installed for it: see 
Start->All Programs->apacheds->Service Settings. A tray icon can also be 
launched for the application to monitor it and to control the service: see 
Start->All Programs->apacheds->Tray Monitor.  The server can also be started 
in a special debug mode (not for IDE remote debugging though) where it dumps
output to the command line in a cmd window rather than to the log files.  You
can launch the server in this mode by selecting Start->All Programs->
apacheds->Test Service.  The server can also be started in test mode by
running the apacheds.exe executable from the command line.  Likewise the 
service manager can be started from the command line by invoking
apachedsw.exe.


Tool Support
------------

ApacheDS comes bundled with a apacheds-tools.jar executable jar in the bin
directory of the installation.  You can run the tools application and list the 
available commands on all platforms like so:

   java -jar apacheds-tools.jar help

The tool contains several commands.  Here's a brief listing with description:

   help             displays help message 
   notifications    listens to the server for disconnect messages
   dump             dumps partitions in LDIF format for recovery and backup
   graceful         starts graceful shutdown with shutdown delay & time offline
   diagnostic       launches diagnostic UI for inspecting server partitions
                    and client sessions
   import           imports data to the server from a LDIF file
   export           exports data from the server as a LDIF file 
   proc             executes a Stored Procedure Command

Over time this tool will include clients to add, delete, compare, modify and
rename entries as well as search the directory.


Connecting
----------

See http://directory.apache.org/apacheds/1.5/apacheds-v15-basic-users-guide.html


Notes
-----

 o The NTP service, and Changepw service are present however they are inactive
   by default.  SSL support likewise is present yet inactive.  For more
   information visit the website or contact us at
   users@directory.apache.org.

Issues
------

Please direct all issues to users@directory.apache.org or file a JIRA here:

   http://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/DIRSERVER


Thanks and enjoy,
Apache Directory Team

============================================================================
This distribution includes cryptographic software.  The country in 
   which you currently reside may have restrictions on the import, 
   possession, use, and/or re-export to another country, of 
   encryption software.  BEFORE using any encryption software, please 
   check your country's laws, regulations and policies concerning the
   import, possession, or use, and re-export of encryption software, to 
   see if this is permitted.  See <http://www.wassenaar.org/> for more
   information.

   The U.S. Government Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and
   Security (BIS), has classified this software as Export Commodity 
   Control Number (ECCN) 5D002.C.1, which includes information security
   software using or performing cryptographic functions with asymmetric
   algorithms.  The form and manner of this Apache Software Foundation
   distribution makes it eligible for export under the License Exception
   ENC Technology Software Unrestricted (TSU) exception (see the BIS 
   Export Administration Regulations, Section 740.13) for both object 
   code and source code.

   The following provides more details on the included cryptographic
   software:

   http://www.bouncycastle.org/
